Now let's work a bit on the styling and the thing which I explained in the last lecture.
The fact that our slotted content is not actually part of the shadow Dom has one important implication.
If we go back to our old code I'm talking about these Web components texture of course.
It's not part of the shadow Dom as I now mentioned multiple times.
This means that I can styled is fruit delight Dom so fruit is styles set up in the light Dom and I want
to do exactly that right now just form it is a little bit.
And now you're you make it really clear that I can't style it from outside.
I'll wrap this in a span simply so that I have a tag a selector which I can use in my light Dom CSX
and I will give as a class of let's say highlight let's say this is a class we have in our default page
styles.
In this case here I have my highlight class selector and again really important to recognize that this
is now all happening in the light Dom.
This is not the scoped styling in the web component.
It's our normal styling in our normal page and that could of course all to be done in an external C
as as file and let's say for the highlight style here.
I typically assign a background color of yellow maybe not this yellow but maybe like a light lime yellow
here like this or actually so that you can see that it better.
Let me go with a light orange I get I guess that's a bit easier to see now when I save that and I reload
this page you see that this is getting this light orange background and again this is not some styling
set up in the web component it is general styling setup in my H female page.
And again this could also be in an external style file.
So my styles here still apply because this span here which holds my text is part of the light Dom not
the shadow Dom and I can make this even clearer if I dive into my tool tip and they are into the styling
for the shadow Dom and there.
Let me also add a highlight class selector now in the styles of the shadow Dom and let me give this
a background of red.
So here I have a background color so let's make this equal even though it would make a different.
But now a background color of does light orange in the light Dom in a background color of red in the
shadow Dom.
And please be aware or see that this is the exact same see us as selector.
So we have a class selector here too.
In the shadow Dom.
And now if I reload my page here we still have to Orange style.
And if we inspect this span here and we have a look at how the styling gets applied we see there also
is no other styling getting applied except for this orange background color.
So it's not like this would be overwriting the shadow Dom styles the shadow Dom style simply don't matter
here because it is not part of the shadow Dom and I'm just emphasizing this because this is so important
that has an important implication for styling.
Now of course though you could have the use case that you do want to style your slotted content from
inside the shadow Dom because your might be creating a web component that should very well set up some
default styling for the projected content.
So for the content that's passed into slots and how could you solve that then.